Friends here our concept is redirection operator and standard input,
standard output and standard error. Let me explain that.
See, our Linux commands need some input.
That input maybe a file or any
another party vote based on which command you are executing on what Tamil.
And once it is executed,
it will produce some output as well.
By default, input is being given with the keyboard.
And keyboard is called standard input device.
And whatever the command you are executing on your tunnel,
that may produce success output or maybe an error also.
So whether it is a success output or another,
both will display on your screen itself.
I mean on your Tamil itself.
Let me explain with a simple example.
Suppose I am trying to list a file C,
there is a, you are able to see the information about that file,
like permissions, user group when it was created.
Right?
Now, the same file I'm trying to read.
But see that you are not able to see the contents of that file.
Instead of that it is displaying permission denied.
Actually it was fail.
It is giving an error.
If you observe here, there are no permissions to read other here.
Thus the reason you are getting an error, that's fine.
So whether you are getting a success output or an error,
both are displaying on your screen itself.
But sometimes you may want to redirect.
You may want to store the output into a file,
in short, displaying on your command line.
Or sometimes you may want to run one more comment on the present output.
Or sometimes you may want to provide the input as a file for your command.
So these are nothing but redirection operations.
So based on whether input redirection or output interaction,
we have different types of operators.
They are output redirection operator,
input redirection operators, and combining redirections operators.
Let me go with one by one.
The very first one is
output redirection operator that we held greater than symbol as the first operator.
That is just to create a new file,
I think is that it's very simple.
Suppose as of now we are running a command and
it is displaying your output on your command line.
But I don't want to display my output on the command line.
Instead of that, I wanted to create a file,
or I want to store this or put into your file and then just use greater than symbol.
Suppose I'm creating them 0.2x.
Now see that isn't your content is not displaying,
your command output is not displaying on your screen.
Instead of that, it is storing in a file called demo 2.txt.
That's it.
Now let me run one more command and I want to redirect that output also into data.txt.
And see that is what is there in your file.
Your previous content Guan.
Now the latest output is there in this fine.
The reason is if you use this greater than symbol,
if this file is already there,
then the content will be truncated under the new output will
be stored into that file in case if it is not there, no problem.
Afresh file will be created on into that your result,
your output will store.
But if you want to keep your wold content as it is,
and if you want to add,
append a new content to your file,
then you have to use 44 greater than its very simple.
Now let me, as of now,
your content is this one right?
Now.
I'm running with four foregrounded that. So what will happen?
This content will be there as these at the end,
the new content will be appended to your file and I'll see you at the end,
the hub and new content that should.
Likewise, you can then any number of times.
Say suppose I'm rerunning
this command with four foreground of them so
that you were world contained will be there as it is on.
New content will be appended.
Sealer.
Just know we appended this content.
That's it.
Now next one is input redirection operator.
So you simply less than just to provide the input for you or come in anyway by default,
what our, the information you are providing on your terminal, that is the input only.
But you can also mention with the less than symbol.
Suppose I'm doing CAT less than them, 0.2x team.
That's it.
So as if not, don't worry about this less than symbol,
we will discuss in detail in our further sections.
That's fine.
Now, combining redirection operator,
it is nothing but if you want to send
the current standard output of one command to another command as standard input,
then you how to use this pipeline symbol.
Just observe that suppose I'm running unless siphon LRT.
So for this command, this is the output.
But in this output, suppose I want to get only user names,
only permissions I want to get first to field, I want to get,
that means this command output is this one.
This output I want to send as an input for second command,
c width pipeline with AWPA comments.
Suppose I am running printed $1.1 so that you are going to get only Foster Field.
So how it is running,
simply, it is providing So it is producing some output.
And with the help of pipelines in ML,
this command will treat this command output as a input for your AWPA command.
That's a.
Likewise, you can combine any number of commands.
Suppose here I am combining suppose with grep,
D, then C, that isn't in this output in which land we,
How did that line is this plane.
That means first it is producing this command,
producing the output that is giving us an input for AWPA command.
And this final result is providing as input for this grep command. That's it.
That's fine.
Now, I have a small requirement.
Stored the Java version into your file using redirection operators.
First, let me do the command to find Java version C.
That is a.
Yes, no, I'm redirecting that output into a file called Java Washington dot TXT.
But you output is not redirecting into that file.
It is still displaying on your command line itself.
The reason is for some commands,
the output we be produced in airplane.
Then how to handle it? If it is success output,
then we are redirecting into some file with help of greater than symbol.
So our problem is how to separate standard output and standard error.
Simply with the help of file descriptors,
file descriptors or Indian numbers just to identify what a standard input,
standard output and standard error.
So E's for standard input.
One is first 100 output and two 0s for standard error.
So here I'm not touching.
That is standard input will discuss aboard in our further sessions.
Now as of now I'm working with 12,
I mean, output and edit.
First thing first, let me explain with a simple command.
Suppose if I read a less,
greater than demo dot TXT,
your output is storing in a file called demo dot dx d. Not only that,
even I can mention one greater than it is storing your result into data.txt.
So by default, whether you are going to do greater than R one greater
than the meaningful daddy's store successor result into that file.
Now, instead of one,
suppose if I do to the meaning for the store only the edit outputting to demo 2.txt.
Suppose if I get any success,
don't store, simply display any word.
Default, a place that is your terminal. You will see that is it.
Unless greater than demo dot dx t,
two greater than means,
if you are command use any air,
then only stored that error into demo 2.txt.
Right? Now what I wanted to eat unless one greater than then
1.2x or let me take a success LaTeX and two greater than error dot TXT.
Now my intention is if ls command you success,
then store into success dot TXT.
If it gives any errors,
store into two, eta dot dx, dy, fine.
Now see that isn't first,
see the success dot TXT.
Yes, content is there in this file.
But era dot TXT,
There is no content because we know that unless Definitely will do success.
The current location.
That's why that success outputs stored in soccer's not dxdy.
Now I am giving some invalid command,
then definitely will produce an error.
But on command line for editor and success places same.
I mean you are a 10-minute itself.
Now what I am doing is if this command group success,
then store into success dot TXT file.
And if we use an error store into error 2.txt file.
Now CSAC test.txt.
We know that some random command,
a ISAF, but that is not a valid command.
Definitely it will produce an error.
That's why there would be no content in success,
not dxdy, but that error is stored in now in ADA dot dx dy.
That's the same way.
Even though you've command is valid one,
some commands will produce their output in the editor plays.
In that case, if you want to store that result into,
you are required to file,
then you need to use file descriptors.
Suppose I am using one greater than Jiao Shen dot TXT.
We know that this will never story will result into jail washington dxdy,
The reason is dow iPhone washing command giving output in the Arab place,
but I want to store it and then used to Nazi that result, sorry.
Not 21, simply to now see the result.
Let's say, right.
Suppose, if you have any confusion for some commands,
whether it is a bird is going to give success,
output or error, then simply what you had to do is Java's space hyphen what Shen,
suppose, I wonder redirect one into this file.
Java was sha1 dot TXT.
Two also, you can do it in the same file so that you are success and error.
What will store into this file? Now see the content.
Fine.
Now, instead of giving in this way,
I mean one into this file,
I mean success output into that file and there also into this file.
That means whenever if you have a same file, I mean,
if you want to store whether success,
output or error in the same file,
in that case, you don't need to write this syntax.
You can also do a shortcut that is Java hyphen y.
One greater than into.
Suppose this file to greater than,
I'm assigned to one.
So that the meaning here is,
please store my error also,
where one is storing, where one is stirring.
I mean success output in this file.
So error also storing into that file.
Or you can also write one more shortcut,
simply java hyphen portion,
error and success output store into this fight Nazi.
Now see that if you are getting confusion with this syntax,
let me create a new file.
I'm creating new Java dot TXT.
No, see that is a content, is there.
So friends.
If you want to redirect your successful putting PDF file,
you can use only greater than,
like a less greater than some new text dot TXT.
Or it can also do one greater than because
by default the greater than symbol we'll consider success output.
And if you want to capture that output, you have to take two.
And if you want to store success or put into one file,
then take one greater than into some you are required to file.
Then error into some error phi.
Nothing.
But if you want to redirect both the outputs,
I mean success all put an arrow,
put into a single file,
then you can use directly first to file
I'm in success output one greater than new test.txt.
Then second means I'm in two minutes era,
era also data redirect into such output place.
Instead of this. You can also directly write shortcut.
I Am percent greater than my file and suppose I am giving different file.
Just to see that.
Let's see the result.
Now check. Ok.
So please be clear with one greater than to,
greater than and one greater than.
Let me write that lines.
They are very important.
Defaults to success, output.
Success, or I'm anyhow deployed some filename here,
let's say some filename, some filename.
That filename is your wish.
And an output.
One greater than.
Suppose I'm reading some filename,
then two greater than ampersand one.
So here we'll, or in single file,
it may be successful put out output will store into a single file.
Now for this shortcut,
you can also write here one more thing you should have this,
I can also write in this way, filename, same filename.
Or for this shortcut is filename.
Your success or put into this and output where you are success,
output is storing or directly you can write shortcut in this way.
So loss of three syntaxes or to say,
you're sorry to store your success output and that output Indian single file,
that's a Vergennes. Thank you.